Finally, it has many utility methods that can apply to a wide range of types.
You saw that a variable expression can be used to return a model attribute or a value that derives from
it.
It can execute a condition based on a model attributes.
It can also be used in a loop, and it can also execute a utility method on a model attributes.
In this lesson, we'll be looking at executing utility methods.
Now.
Finally, he has methods that can operate on arrays, calendars, dates, lists, maps, numbers, objects,
sets, strings.
And I'm probably even missing a few.
This gives us a lot of flexibility and in my opinion it's a very powerful feature because it allows
you to perform very special operations on pretty much any data type that could exist in our model.
And the syntax is as follows.
So you've got your variable expression followed by a pound sign.
Which time leave class do you need utility methods from?
If you're operating on a string, then you would need a utility method from the strings class.
If you're operating on a date, then you would need a utility method from the data class.
Let's assume we're operating on strings next.
Which method do you want to grab from the strings class?
Let's assume we want to grab the contains method.
This method, like any java function expects parameters.
The first parameter is usually the target.
In other words, the value that you're operating on, which will always be your model attributes.
The parameters that follow depend on the method.
And the contains method returns a boolean value of true or false, and the resulting value can be displayed
with something like thin leaf text.
You can do whatever you want with the value.
Okay.
Now, what I want you to do is open up the starter project for this lesson by following this path in
your course resources.
Here you can see the handler method right as it's about to return the view.
It adds an attribute to the model called Menu that maps to a string that says we sell chocolate rice
cakes and bubble tea.
And now back inside of The View, what we want to do is see if the string being passed in.
We sell chocolate rice cakes and bubble tea.
Does it contain the word rice cakes?
And then we want to display the results.
We will display the result with live text.
And somehow in this variable expression, we need to check if the model attribute menu.
Does the string contain the word rice cakes?
So I need to find a utility method that can perform this task.
Since we're operating on a string, we're going to need a utility method from the strings class.
So this link is inside of your resources folder.
Please make sure to click on it.
And now down here, I'm going to scroll down to the strings class and now I'm going to try to look for
a utility method that we can use to operate on the string menu.
All right.
Contains.
It expects to parameters the target, the value that you're operating on.
And the second parameter is the fragment that you're looking for.
So if the target you're operating on contains the fragment, this is going to return.
True.
Okay.
So we'll go back here, followed by a pound sign.
Which time leaf class are we grabbing utility methods from?
In this case, we're going to grab a utility method from the strings class.
The method we want to grab is contains.
And contains accepts to parameters the target, the value that you're operating on.
In this case, it's our model attributes.
And don't worry, it's going to know to grab the menu model attributes.
And the second parameter in this case is your fragment.
So we're going to check if the string that menu maps to.
Does it contain the fragment rice cakes?
And if you're ever putting a plane string inside of a thin leaf expression, please make sure to wrap
it in single quotes.
All right.
This utility method is going to return.
A Boolean value of true or false and timely text will display the resulting boolean value.
So let's try this out.
I'm going to go to local host 8080.
And it displays true.
All right.
What if I say, does the menu include.
Creme brulée.
Not even sure that's how you spell it.
But anyways, that is false.
Now the boolean value that comes out of this expression, I can even use it in a ternary operation here.
I can say if the value is true, then I'm going to display the text.
We have this item.
Otherwise I will display.
We do not have this item.
All right, don't be frightened.
This is just a regular ternary operation.
If this is true, fine leaf text will equal this value.
If this is false, fine leaf text will equal the other value.
We do not have this item.
Let's put this back to rice cakes.
Beautiful.
Now I want you to think about the power that you have being able to leverage all of these utility methods
for a wide range of types.
You can do pretty much anything that you want in life, and I really hope this makes you appreciate
how powerful the family library is.
In this lesson you learned about leaf utility methods.
This wraps up our discussion on variable expressions.
You saw that a variable expression can return a model attribute or a value that derives from it.
It can execute a condition based on a model attributes.
A variable expression can also be used in a loop, and it can also execute utility methods on a model
attributes.